---
title: "Measuring subjective inequality: Development and validation of the Perceived Economic Inequality Scale (PEIS)"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/Perceived Economic Inequality Scale
excerpt: "The main goal of this research is to develop and validate the Perceived Economic Inequality Scale (PEIS), an instrument measuring individuals' perceptions of economic inequality at the national level."
date: 2024-02-05
venue: 'The Spanish Journal of Psychology'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/PEIS.pdf'
citation: '<b>Valtorta, R. R.</b>, Vezzoli, M., Mari, S., Durante, F., & Volpato, C. (2024). Measuring subjective inequality: Development and validation of the Perceived Economic Inequality Scale (PEIS). <i>The Spanish Journal of Psychology, 27</i>, Article e2.'
---

The main goal of the present research is to develop and validate the Perceived Economic Inequality Scale (PEIS), an instrument measuring individuals’ perceptions of economic inequality at the national level. The study was conducted on a representative sample of the Italian population (_N_ = 1,446, 51% women). The factorial structure of the scale was assessed through cross-validated exploratory-confirmatory factor analyses. To inspect the PEIS psychometric properties, item and correlation analyses were performed. The results showed that the PEIS is a valid and reliable unidimensional measure of perceived economic inequality at the national level. Further support of the PEIS construct validity was provided by the correlation of the scale score with the perceived wage gap and ideological beliefs like the economic system justification, social dominance orientation, meritocratic beliefs, and participants’ political orientation. Crucially, multigroup confirmatory factor analysis supported configural, metric, and scalar invariances of the scale across socio-demographic groups. The PEIS allows researchers to assess the subjective component of economic inequality by also serving as a useful tool for unpacking the psychological correlates of perceived inequality.
